Partition and format drives Mini-HOWTO
--------------------------------------

How to Partition and format drives.

1. To be able to use large drives (over 4 GB), consider any of 
these options:

a) Using either a 3.1.4 or 3.2 Kickstart ROM. 

b) Alternatively, you can create a small (less than 1 GB) boot 
partition, , inside the first four gigabytes of your drive, which 
will load the upgraded operating system (either AmigaOS 3.1.4 or 3.2 
can be used for this purpose). In this way all extended partitions 
will then become available after the first reboot. 

c) Another option is to boot from the "Modules" disk specific to 
your Amiga model, and after Workbench loads, you can 
double-click on the "Modules" disk icon and then on to the 
"SYStoInstallDisk" icon. This will, after some disk swaps, properly 
transfer the SYS: assign to your Install3.2 disk.

For this purpose, make sure you have your Install3.2 disk inserted, 
and slide the drive-protection notch to the closed position, enabling 
writing to the disk. Double-click the Install3.2 disk icon, and then 
on the HDTools folder. 

d) You may also use your AmigaOS 3.2 CD-ROM disc if you have it 
already accessible and you are also using either a 3.1.4 or 3.2 
Kickstart ROM with it.

In such a case you can use the "CopyToRAMandRun_HDToolBox" script 
located in the "Install" drawer by double-clicking its icon, which 
will copy HDToolBox to RAM: and launch it from there. If you need to 
adjust tool types you can easily do that by quitting HDToolBox and 
opening your RAM: volume to make those changes and then run it again.    

2. Ensure the host adapter device name is correctly set by selecting 
the HDToolBox icon, then right-clicking the Workbench menu, then 
'Icons' -> 'Information...'. The SCSI_DEVICE_NAME is scsi.device by 
default, and will work on most of the factory built-in Commodore Amiga 
controllers. Be aware that each disk controller has one, and that they 
are sometimes named differently. Be sure to adjust its name properly 
according to the controller's manual.

3. Double-click the 'HDToolBox' icon to run the program. If it opens, 
select 'Continue'.

4. All the drives connected to scsi.device (or the host-adapter device 
name you set in the step #2 should appear. Only select the one you are 
going to install.

5. Click on 'Change Drive type'. 

6. Click on 'Define new...'.

7. Click on 'Read configuration'. If a dialog box opens, select 
'Continue'.

8. Exit the Define/Edit Drive Type window by clicking 'Ok' and yet 
again on the other 'Ok'. If a dialog box opens, select 'Continue'.

9. Now, in the main HDToolBox window, click on 'Partition Drive'.

10. Now adjust partition sizes as desired. Be aware that by default, 
HDToolBox presents you with a two-partition predefined scheme for new 
drives, which you can modify at will. 

11. While in the 'Partitioning' window of HDToolBox, click 
on 'Advanced Options'. 

Select the 'Direct SCSI transfer' check box for each partition. 

However, if your hard drive controller is a Commodore A2090, or the 
one that comes with the Phase 5 CyberStorm MK3/PPC, or was 
manufactured before the year 1990, then leave the box unchecked.

12. If your controller was manufactured by Commodore (CBM) or GVP 
(Great Valley Products), skip directly to the next step (step #13).

If the above does not apply to you: 

Click 'Change...'. For each partition (to be used as an 
AmigaDOS device), you will need to set the 'MaxTransfer' value. 

Please refer to your controller manufacturer's manual for the 
appropriate value.

If unsure, a safe value for MaxTransfer is '0x1FE00' (without the 
quotes).

Remember to press the RETURN key on your keyboard when done entering 
this value or the changes will not be saved.

Finalize by clicking once on 'Ok'.

13. Click on 'Add/Update'. A list of currently-installed file systems 
appears on the screen. This list may be empty.
   
14. If there is already a file system on the list, click on 'Update 
File System...'. Accept the default by clicking on 'OK'.
   
15. If there is no file system in the list, click on 'Add New File 
System...', then accept the default choice for the file system, and 
click on 'OK'.
      
16. A list of file system options is now shown. Ensure that the 
version says '47'. If not, you did not boot from an OS 3.2 disk.
      
17. Click on 'Ok' to accept, or modify the file system type (DOSType)
accordingly. For most installations, the default type shown as 
0x444f5303 is fine.
      
18. Click on 'OK' to go back to the list of file systems.
   
19. Click on 'OK' to go back to the partition list.

20. Make sure at least one partition has the 'Bootable' check box 
selected. When finished, click on 'Ok'.

21. Click 'Save Changes to Drive'. A warning may appear; if 
that happens, click 'Continue'.

22. Click on 'Exit', and if a message appears, select 'Continue'. 
A reboot may occur.

23. Now the new partition(s) should appear on the desktop as 
unformatted/un-initialized. 

24. Click once on the corresponding disk icon to select it, and then 
from within Workbench (holding the right mouse button) select the 
Icons menu to choose the "Format disk..." menu item.

From the Format window make sure to check the options you prefer, and 
click "Quick Format". A warning requester will appear. Click "Format".

Please note that if you booted from a "Modules" disk, you may be able 
to format volumes by just double clicking on the "SYStoInstallDisk" 
icon and after several disk swaps with the "Install3.2" disk you will 
be able to successfully perform the procedure outlined above. 

25. Now the partition is ready to store files.